Click here for details Graça Machel and Melinda Gates will make a call to action in response to the impact of COVID-19 on women and girls in Africa during the next session webinar on Africa.com. The discussion will take place on Thursday July 16, 2020. The event takes place at this time across the world:
12:30 EDT New York | 16:30 GMT Ghana | 17:30 WAT Nigeria /UK | 18:30 CAT South Africa | 19:30 EAT Kenya Youtube:  Soundcloud:  Download PDF Here Register for free at this link.
https://virtualconferenceafrica.com/registration/ Graça Machel is one of the world’s leading advocates for women’s and children’s rights and has been a social justice and political activist for many decades. She established the Graça Machel Trust in 2010 as a Pan-African advocacy organisation focused on child health and nutrition, education, women’s economic and financial empowerment, leadership and good governance. The Trust has worked to “Multiply the Faces and Amplify the Voices” of African women and children. Melinda Gates is co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation which launched  in 2000. Through her work at the foundation, Melinda has seen first-hand that empowering women and girls can bring transformational improvements in the health and prosperity of families, communities, and societies. The webinar series, Crisis Management for African Business Leaders, was developed in partnership with faculty from Harvard Business School, and constitutes the largest ever gathering of c-suite executives in Africa.  The series has attracted over 20,000 senior business leaders, with several thousand participating in each webinar. Registrants come from 123 countries – 46 countries on the African continent + 77 countries throughout the world. If you have not yet registered, or for more information, please visit virtualconferenceafrica.com About Africa.com
Africa.com is a media holding company with an extensive array of platforms that reach a global audience interested in African content and community. Africa.com’s interests include a business publisher’s ad network, content syndication, the website at www.iafrica.com, email newsletters, various social media platforms, and internet domain names ending with the “.africa.com” extension. Africa.com operates from Johannesburg, Lagos, and New York, and has a presence in Cape Town and Nairobi. Media Inquiries
Laura Joseph
Phone: +27 82 332 0473
Email: laura.joseph@africa.com